Trade in the Gulf and beyond.
Long before today's skyscrapers and oil tankers,
the Gulf region was already a center of trade.
Over 4,000 years ago, between 2,600 BCE and 1,900 BCE,
one of the world's earliest civilizations, the Indus Valley Civilization,
was actively trading with ancient Gulf communities.
Located in what is now Pakistan and Northwest India,
the Indus people built advanced cities like Harapa,
Mohenjo Daro, and Lothal.
Lothal featured one of the world's oldest known dockyards,
enabling maritime trade across the Arabian Sea.
Archaeological evidence shows that
Indus traders reach Mesopotamia and the Gulf,
including Dillman, modern-day Bahrain,
a trading hub mentioned in Sumerian text as a land of purity and commerce.
Goods like copper, cotton textile, and bread were exchanged
for lapis lazuli, dates, and silver.
Indus seals found at Gulf sites such as Umalnar, UAE,
and Ross Aljins, Oman, proved these connections.
Trade wasn't just about goods,
it also enabled the exchange of technology,
like boat design and standard weights,
indicating the early flow of ideas between civilizations.
Today's Gulf economy still depend on trade,
but it all started with early seed links,
like those with the Indus Valley.